Description:
A residue with enhanced nucleophilicity used for quantitative modification and often inhibition of target proteins.

Text:
Chemical probes offer a molecular toolkit for the study of 
the proteome and validation of potential therapeutic tar
gets.1 Probes that bear reactive functionalities have proved 
particularly powerful for the study of protein targets 
through the covalent modification of selected amino ac
ids.2,3 Covalent inhibitors and therapeutics provide a proven 
strategy to enhance potency and selectivity, and reduce dos
ing frequency (Figure 1Ai).47 Reactive tools have also been 
employed broadly in chemical biology, enabling robust pro
tein capture and providing access to a suite of techniques, 
including chemoproteomic mapping of ligandprotein inter
actions across the proteome (Figure 1Aii).8,9 More recently, 
reactive fragmentbased screening platforms have been de
veloped for streamlined and robust detection of hits, both 
with purified proteins of interest and in proteomewide 
screening, which offers a route to expand the liganded pro
teome (Figure 1Aiii).1016 
Existing reactive approaches have traditionally utilised cys
teinetargeting electrophiles, exploiting the enhanced nu
cleophilicity of these residues to enable quantitative modi
fication, and often inhibition, of target proteins (Figure 
1Bi).1719 There are, however, a limited number of protein 
pockets that contain an accessible cysteine.
