Description:
Compounds play a prevalent role in biological metabolic processes.

Text:
Sulfur based organic molecules have always been a prime focus 
for synthetic chemists, owing to the existence of variable redox 
states that allows construction of several classes of organosulfur 
compounds.1 The prevalent role in biological metabolic 
processes made them essential for living organisms and their 
existence spans from marine to terrestrial systems.2 Sulfide 
moieties make up a prominent section of building blocks and 
versatile intermediates, which allows for widespread applications 
in synthetic chemistry, material science, pharmaceutical industry 
and biological applications (Scheme 1A).3 Sulfides and their 
derivatives can be found as one of the leading series of 
pharmaceutically active compounds among FDA listed 362 sulfur
containing drugs.4 For instance, dapsone, a wellknown antibiotic 
used for the treatment of leprosy, contains a sulfone scaffold.


---

Description:
Reagents used in transition metal-catalyzed cross-coupling with aryl halides or aryl boronic acids.

Text:
Several nitro and aminoincorporated sulfides are reported as 
biologically active moieties widely used in the treatment of 
inflammation, Alzheimers, HIV, breast cancer, malarial diseases 
and fungal related conditions.4b, 5 Similarly, vinyl sulfones play a 
crucial role in several classes of drugs for cancer treatment.6 
Synthetic routes to diaryl sulfides have been investigated 
thoroughly,7 and most common routes involve a transition metal
catalyzed 
crosscoupling 
between 
thiophenols 
or 
other 
organosulfur reagents and aryl halides or aryl boronic acids.
