Description:
Used in redox switchable ring-opening copolymerization with epoxides.

Text:
Polyesters and polyethers are biodegradable polymers that can 
help reduce the worldwide plastic waste and mitigate the 
white pollution issue.15 In order to improve the properties of 
biodegradable polymers, the synthesis of polyetherblock
polyesters allows tuning of their properties to adjust elasticity 
and hydrophilicity to meet the requirements of a specific 
material.68 Furthermore, postfunctionalization of copolymers 
with unsaturated functionalities in their structure allows 
additional improvements of their properties.912 

Epoxides are valuable comonomers for the formation of 
polycarbonates and polyesters, usually obtained from their ring 
opening copolymerization with CO2 or cyclic anhydrides, 
respectively.1318 Switchable polymerization methods1925 have 
expanded the use of epoxides to other types of block 
copolymers such as polyetherblockpolyesters,2628 polyester
blockpolyesters,2930 polyetherblockpolycarbonates,31 and 
polyesterblockpolycarbonates.32 Of these methods, redox 
switchable ringopening copolymerization of cyclic esters and 
epoxides offers precise control over the formation of polyether
blockpolyesters directly from epoxides and cyclic esters.3353 
Our group uses zirconium, titanium, aluminum, yttrium, or zinc 
complexes bearing a ferrocene unit in the ligand backbone that 
can be oxidized and reduced reversibly; these compounds show 
different selectivity in the reduced and oxidized states.


---

Description:
Polymerized by a zirconium complex in its reduced form.

Text:
Of these 
compounds, a zirconium complex, (salfen)Zr(OiPr)2 (salfen  
N,Nbis(2,4ditertbutylphenoxy)1,1ferrocenediimine),54 
was investigated, and it was found that, in its reduced form, it 
can polymerize cyclic esters, such as llactide (LA), 
caprolactone, and valerolactone, while in its oxidized form, it 
can polymerize epoxides such as cyclohexene oxide (CHO) and 
propylene oxide.55 As a consequence, it proved to be a 
successful redox switchable copolymerization system, where 
diblock and triblock copolymers of LA and CHO were prepared.
