Description:
Used in the addition to imines in the presence of TBAF.

Text:
For ex
ample, Wang and coworkers reported the addition of al
lyltrimethylsilane to imines in the presence of TBAF.12 Ya
masaki and coworkers have used allyltrimethoxysilane 
alongside copper (I) chloride and TBAT to simultaneously 
activate the allylsilane and substrate to access a number of 
homoallylic alcohols and amines.13 These methodologies 
are limited by their use of a preformed imine as the sub
strate, requiring a twostep process to access the desired 
homoallylic amine product from commercially (or syntheti
cally) available carbonylcontaining compounds. To date, there are just three reports of silanemediated al
kylative reductions via threecomponent (i.e. carbonyl, 
amine, and allylating agent) reactions (Scheme 1).


---

Description:
Reacts with aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes in the presence of iodine to produce protected homoallylic amines.

Text:
Phukan 
demonstrated that iodine could act as a powerful catalyst 
for the rapid reaction of aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes 
with benzyl carbamate and allyltrimethylsilane to produce 
various protected homoallylic amines.14 Similarly, Ghorai 
and coworker used a rhenium catalyst to access protected 
secondary and tertiary homoallylic amines with chemo and 
diastereoselectivity.15 Gandhi and coworker used a chiral 
disulfonimide catalyst to create an enantioselective version 
of this reaction.16 These approaches are limited by the re
quirement of a terminal carbamate as the nitrogen source, 
and the latter requires long reaction times (4  10 days). A 
reaction that could broaden the scope of this transfor
mation while also improving in the practicality and green
ness of these procedures would enable more ready access 
to important homoallylic amines.
