Description:
A family of superconductors that exceeded the BCS theory threshold of 30 K.

Text:
Superconductivity has been a major focus in research since
its discovery in 1911 2. The discovery of a material that
exhibits superconductivity at operating temperatures above
273 K and at atmospheric pressure (101 kPa) would have
an enormous technological impact. It would absolutely rev
olutionize the fields of digital electronics and the electric
power industry. For many years, all known superconductors
were thought to exist within the bounds of BardeenCooper
Schrieffer (BCS) theory, which stated that the superconduc
tivity of materials could not exist above temperatures of 30
K 3. It wasnt until 1986 when Johannes G. Bednorz and
Karl A. Muller discovered a new class of superconductor in
the cuprate family that exceeded this BCS theory threshold. 4.


---

Description:
Superconductors with a critical temperature above the boiling point of liquid nitrogen.

Text:
It was also a cuprate that was discovered with a critical
temperature above the boiling point of liquid nitrogen (77
K). This led to the realization that applications of super
conductivity were looking more realistic and feasible in the
near future 6. Superconductors with a critical temperature
above the boiling point of liquid nitrogen are called high
temperature superconductors. It is important to note that all
hightemperature superconductors are typeII superconductors. To date, cuprate superconductors hold the record for the
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20238t8ktv4 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000195112918 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
