Description:
Naturally occurring substrates that undergo reductive or oxidative quenching during metallaphotoredox catalysis.

Text:
The combination of metal catalysis and photochemistry has received 
considerable attention over the last decade and holds great promise for 
milder and more sustainable organic syntheses.1 This rising field, termed 
metallaphotoredox catalysis and pioneered by the MacMillan group, enables 
diverse transformations utilizing oxidative or reductive excited state 
quenching mechanisms to form transient organic radicals from readily 
available starting materials.2 Additionally, employed photosensitizers can 
undergo energy transfer (EnT) processes and thus enable an alternative 
activation mechanism in lightmediated catalysis holding great promises in 
future synthetic applications.3 
Naturally occurring carboxylic acids are an ideal and abundant substrate to 
undergo reductive or oxidative quenching during metallaphotoredox 
catalysis.


---

Description:
Can be activated by hypervalent iodine(III) reagents for radical formation.

Text:
When activated, carboxy radicals are formed which rapidly 
liberate carbon dioxide in a highly exergonic reaction (23.2 kcal mol1), to 
form a carboncentered radical.4 This approach, when combined with metal 
catalysis, has enabled various new kinds of CC and CN bond formation 
reactions.5 A suitable activation method for carboxylic acids are hypervalent 
iodine(III) reagents, such as phenyliodo diacetate (PIDA), which are well 
known sources for aliphatic radicals6 and have been activated with 
photochemistry in chain reactions.7 On the one hand, singleelectron 
transfer (SET) or reduction of PIDA can occur from highly reducing excited 
state photocatalysts (PC, Figure 1).
