Description:
An electron-donating moiety that stabilizes developing positive charges for reactivity and regioselectivity.

Text:
Allylic CH functionalization reactions have become es
sential techniques in organic synthesis, facilitating the effi
cient construction of diverse molecules with wideranging 
applications.1619 However, achieving site selectivity in in
ternal alkenes, which possess two or more sets of similar al
lylic protons, has long been a significant challenge com
pared to the wellestablished functionalization of alkenes 
with a single set of allylic protons.2022 Recent progress in 
this area has largely stemmed from advances leveraging the 
negative inductive effect of electronwithdrawing groups 
(EWGs) or the coordinating influence of heteroatoms.2327 
We have recently developed a siteselective allylic CH 
functionalization reaction guided by electrondonating 
B(MIDA) (Nmethyliminodiacetyl boronate) moiety.28 The 
capability of B(MIDA) to stabilize the developing positive 
charges at  position was proposed to be key for both reac
tivity and regioselectivity.29,30 This method was based on 
Sharplesss pioneering work in 1976 on metalfree allylic C
H amination of simple alkenes using stoichiometric in situ 
generated diimidoselenium reagent,3132 and more recently 
Michaels catalytic version using simple sulfonamides as ni
trogen sources in combination of a hypervalent iodine oxi
dant.3335 The latter upgraded protocol has been applied in 
allylic CH amination of many terpenoids but it still poses 
challenges for unsymmetrical internal alkenes.
