Description:
Enable light control for the assembly of nanosized building blocks into various dimensional matter.

Text:
Derivatives of azobenzene enable the use of light as a non
invasive stimulus to control the properties of matter on var
ious length scales.13 Among many other applications, pho
toswitches based on the NN double bond motif hold signif
icant promise in energy storage technologies,4,5 provide 
possibilities to steer the target affinity of drug molecules,6,7 
or allow to control catalyst activity.811 Beyond that, 
azoarenes enable light control for the assembly of nano
sized building blocks into one (e.g., supramolecular poly
mers),1216 two (e.g., interfaces),1719 or threedimensional 
(e.g., micro or nanoparticle assemblies) matter.20,21 
In all cases, the underlying concept relies on the activation 
of the E azo double bond into its Z form,22 which is associ
ated with significant changes of the molecules shape and 
dipole moment.


---

Description:
Small molecules that can be activated without synthetic modification through energy transfer processes.

Text:
Recently, Klajn and coworkers presented a strategy that al
lows for the activation of small molecule azoarenes without 
the necessity of their synthetic modification.29 By confining 
the E photoswitches with a visible light absorbing photo
sensitizer as heterodimers within a nanopore30 (for the mo
lecular components, see Fig. 1A), isomerization with ener
gies corresponding to green, yellow, orange, or red light 
could be achieved through an energy transfer process.3133 
Crucially, the Z isomer of the applied switches is sterically 
more demanding and hence does not form analogous heter
odimers with the respective sensitizers, preventing ZtoE 
isomerization and accordingly resulting in its accumulation.
