Description:
A product of olefin metathesis reaction used in the petrochemical industry.

Text:
The decrease in quality is further facilitated by the presence of 
different additives, such as flame retardants, pigments and 
plasticizers.8 However, new chemical recycling technologies 
based on olefin metathesis reaction which can convert PE with 
ethylene to propylene have recently been proposed as an 
important alternative and could be demonstrated by Scott and 
Guironnet,9 Hartwig10 and in our laboratories.11,12 These 
technologies offer the possibility to use polyolefin waste as a 
feedstock for the chemical industry. Moreover, the propylene 
product of this transformation is widely used in the 
petrochemical industry to provide essential chemicals and 
intermediates, e.g. polypropylene, propylene oxide, butanal, 
acrolein, acryl nitrile or isopropanol.


---

Description:
Used for the synthesis of recyclable and biodegradable polymers.

Text:
Furthermore, propylene 
can also be used for the synthesis of recyclable and bio
degradable 
polymers 
such 
as 
polylactic 
acid 
(PLA), 
polybutylene adipate terephthalate (PBAT) or polybutylene 
succinate (PBS). The metathesisbased conversion of PE to 
propylene, therefore, highlights the potential of the openloop 
recycling approach, where a waste material can be utilized as a 
flexible and versatile feedstock. Essentially, it allows 
recovering the carbon atoms and synthesis effort which have 
been invested at the start of the product life cycle. This open
loop approach therefore forms the basis for building a multi
dimensional circular economy in the chemical industry (figure 
1).
