Description:
Undergo allylic CH functionalization to synthesize functionalized alkenes.

Text:
Allylic CH functionalization of simple alkenes stands as a 
straightforward and stepefficient method for synthesizing 
functionalized alkenes. Over the past two decades, 
significant advancements have been made in this field.14 
Mechanistically, two distinct pathways were proposed in 
these transformations. The first involves Pdcatalyzed 
allylic CH activation of alkenes with the aid of external 
oxidants, 
producing 
electrophilic 
allylic 
Pd(II) 
intermediates, which are then intercepted by a wide range 
of soft nucleophiles (Scheme 1a).1 The second approach 
involves forming nucleophilic allylic metal intermediates by 
the use of latetransition metals (such as Fe and Co)2 and 
alkali metals (for instances, Li and Na)3 under basic 
conditions, which subsequently add to carbonyl compounds 
and imines (Scheme 1b).


---

Description:
Subject to allylic C-H functionalization in chemical reactions.

Text:
Arising from the unique properties of rareearth metal 
ions, such as strong Lewis acidity, variable ionic radius, 
stable 3 oxidation state, CH activation reactions 
promoted by rareearth metals display distinct reaction 
pathways, substrate scopes as well as chem, regio or 
stereoselectivities with latetransition metal catalysis.5 
Taking use of strong heteroatomaffinity of rareearth metal 
ions and high reactivity of REC bond towards unsaturated 
carboncarbon bonds, rareearth organometallic complex 
enables to transform heteroatomcontaining substrates and 
alkene or alkynes into valueadded molecules in a highly 
Scheme 1. The Allylic CH Functionalization of Simple 
Alkenes
