Description:
Reactive intermediates used in organic synthesis for asymmetric reactions and complex scaffold access.

Text:
The versatility of arynes as reactive intermediates con
tinues to spur advances in organic synthesis including the 
discovery and development of asymmetric reactions and 
access to complex scaffolds.15 Although deprotonation
elimination was one of the earliest methods to generate 
arynes, the past several decades have been dominated by 
fluoride induced elimination of otrimethylsilylaryl tri
flates because this has proven to be an exceptionally mild 
strategy (Scheme 1a).6 Notwithstanding the functional 
group compatibility of this approach,7 the primary limita
tion lies in the multistep synthesis of otrimethylsilylaryl 
triflates (Scheme 1a). The commercial availability of these 
reagents is therefore limited and the cost exorbitant rela
tive to other arylation reagents.


---

Description:
Accessed efficiently through dehydrogenation of simple arenes.

Text:
In 2023 we 
merged the CH functionalization of arenes via thi
anthrenation and deprotonative aryne generation for a net 
dehydrogenation of simple arenes as an efficient way to 
access arynes (Scheme 1c).11 In our early optimization, we 
found that aryl thianthrenium salts were more easily ac
cessed than aryl(Mes)iodonium salts and we therefore 
developed a twostep sequence in which the aryl thi
anthrenium salts were isolated and subsequently used as 
aryne precursors (Scheme 1c). Although the isolation of 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv202404r0l ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000335199067 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
