Description:
Complexes feature different properties depending on their structural diversity, redox or catalytic properties, and ligand exchange propensity.

Text:
Dipyrrins (dipyrromethenes 1)1 are wellknown for their ability to 
act as ligands in coordination chemistry.2 Dipyrrinato(metal) 
complexes feature different properties depending on their 
structural diversity, redox or catalytic properties, and ligand 
exchange propensity. Depending on the metal employed, they 
bear one or more ligands and are classified as homoleptic or 
heteroleptic. They have found applications in materials science, 
photonics, and photomedicine. In the latter context they have 
opened chemical space in the medicinal bioinorganic chemistry 
arena,3 
primarily 
as 
anticancer 
and 
antimicrobial 
photosensitizers.4 
The metal complexes have interesting post excitation 
characteristics through excitonic coupling (Davydov splitting), 
photoinduced electron transfer, charge transfer states leading in 
either radical pair (RPISC) or spin orbit coupling (SOCISC) 
intersystem crossing.


---

Description:
Classified as homoleptic or heteroleptic depending on the metal employed.

Text:
Dipyrrins (dipyrromethenes 1)1 are wellknown for their ability to 
act as ligands in coordination chemistry.2 Dipyrrinato(metal) 
complexes feature different properties depending on their 
structural diversity, redox or catalytic properties, and ligand 
exchange propensity. Depending on the metal employed, they 
bear one or more ligands and are classified as homoleptic or 
heteroleptic. They have found applications in materials science, 
photonics, and photomedicine. In the latter context they have 
opened chemical space in the medicinal bioinorganic chemistry 
arena,3 
primarily 
as 
anticancer 
and 
antimicrobial 
photosensitizers.4 
The metal complexes have interesting post excitation 
characteristics through excitonic coupling (Davydov splitting), 
photoinduced electron transfer, charge transfer states leading in 
either radical pair (RPISC) or spin orbit coupling (SOCISC) 
intersystem crossing.


---

Description:
Found applications in materials science, photonics, and photomedicine, primarily as anticancer and antimicrobial photosensitizers.

Text:
Dipyrrins (dipyrromethenes 1)1 are wellknown for their ability to 
act as ligands in coordination chemistry.2 Dipyrrinato(metal) 
complexes feature different properties depending on their 
structural diversity, redox or catalytic properties, and ligand 
exchange propensity. Depending on the metal employed, they 
bear one or more ligands and are classified as homoleptic or 
heteroleptic. They have found applications in materials science, 
photonics, and photomedicine. In the latter context they have 
opened chemical space in the medicinal bioinorganic chemistry 
arena,3 
primarily 
as 
anticancer 
and 
antimicrobial 
photosensitizers.4 
The metal complexes have interesting post excitation 
characteristics through excitonic coupling (Davydov splitting), 
photoinduced electron transfer, charge transfer states leading in 
either radical pair (RPISC) or spin orbit coupling (SOCISC) 
intersystem crossing.
