Description:
Three-dimensional isosteres of lactams and nonbasic analogs of saturated heterocyclic amines.

Text:
Fused heterocycles (both aromatic and saturated) are common 
structures present in a significant number of natural compounds 
and marketed drugs.13 Cycloaddition reactions are powerful tools 
to access such ring systems and generate complex molecular 
architectures in an efficient, atomeconomic, regio and stereo
selective manner.4 While numerous examples illustrating this fact 
exist in various subfields of heterocyclic chemistry,510 the 
cycloaddition approach was rarely used for the construction of 
bicyclic sulfonamides (sultams). Meanwhile, sultams gained much 
attention in medicinal chemistry as threedimensional isosteres of 
lactams and nonbasic analogs of saturated heterocyclic 
amines.1114 Fused bicyclic sultams have been identified as highly 
potent secretase inhibitors,15 casein kinase II inhibitors,16 
protease activated receptor 1 (PAR1) antagonists,17 or androgen 
receptor (AR) antagonists18 (Figure 1).


---

Description:
Unsaturated compounds used in 3+2 cycloaddition reactions to create sp3 enriched heterocyclic building blocks.

Text:
In this work, we report a comprehensive study on the 3  2 
cycloaddition reactions of five and sixmembered ,unsaturated 
sultams of general formula 1 as a general approach to fused sp3
enriched heterocyclic building blocks for early drug discovery 
programs (Scheme 1, A). We established the scope and limitations 
of these transformations depending on the nature of the 1,3dipolar 
component and demonstrated their high regio and stereoselectivity. In addition to that, antiviral activity was found for some of the 
synthesized cycloadducts. It should be noted that a very limited 
number of similar cycloadditions was reported in the literature, 
including the DielsAlder reaction of sultams (B)1921 and 3  2 
cycloaddition of sulton 2 with nitrile oxides or nitrones (C).22 

Figure 1. Examples of biologically active saturated fused sultams
