Description:
Proposed as intermediates in several transformations.

Text:
Similar to 
keteniminyl anions, they have been proposed as 
intermediates in several transformations, but only little 
been investigated as isolable reagents.24 The only 
example of an sblock metal ynamide, lithium complex B, 
was prepared by Lappert through an unusual coupling of 
two isocyanide molecules with a silyllithium reagent.25 
Recently, we reported on a new synthetic pathway to 
ketenes from isolable ketenyl anions D synthesized 
through the mild exchange of the phosphine ligand in 
metalated ylides C by carbon monoxide (Figure 1b).26 
Using this approach, we successfully isolated a series of 
phosphinoyl, tosyl and cyanosubstituted ketenyl anions, 
which proved to be excellent precursors to ketenes and a 
large range of carbonylcontaining compounds.27,28,29,30 
Shortly after, Liu and coworkers reported the formation of 
the stable (phosphino)ketenyl anion G via an N2CO 
exchange in diazomethanides E (Figure 1b),31 a strategy 
previously used insitu in ketene chemistry.32 Besides 
metalated ylides and diazomethanides also neutral 
diazoalkenes have been reported by Hansmann and 
coworkers to undergo an exchange of the N2 moiety when 
treated with carbon monoxide or 2,6dimethylphenyl 
isocyanide.33,34,35 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2025mfpl5 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000165572366 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv.
