Description:
A pivotal feedstock for chemical production due to its enormous reserves in natural gas and shale formations.

Text:
The transition from burning traditional fossil fuels to sustainable energy is proceeding slowly 
because of the lack of efficient catalysts and infrastructures, and thus carbonbased fuels are 
expected to remain a primary energy source in the near term.1,2 Among various hydrocarbons, 
methane stands out due to its enormous reserves in natural gas and shale formations, making it a 
pivotal feedstock for chemical production.3,4 However, efficient and selective conversion of 
methane into valueadded chemicals under mild conditions remains a challenge due to its 
exceptional stability, driven by its tetrahedral symmetry and strong CH bond strength ( 439 
kJmol), which demands high temperatures ( 700 C) andor highly reactive catalysts for 
activation.5,6 The relatively low volumetric energy density of methane requires costly 
infrastructure for liquefaction, transportation, and storage, thereby underscoring the need for 
efficient onsite and scalable conversion processes.2 Meanwhile, methane is the most potent 
greenhouse gas.7,8 Thus, developing efficient technologies to convert methane into valueadded 
chemicals under mild conditions is imperative for both economic and environmental sustainability.


---

Description:
Characterized by exceptional stability due to its tetrahedral symmetry and strong CH bond strength (439 kJ/mol).

Text:
The transition from burning traditional fossil fuels to sustainable energy is proceeding slowly 
because of the lack of efficient catalysts and infrastructures, and thus carbonbased fuels are 
expected to remain a primary energy source in the near term.1,2 Among various hydrocarbons, 
methane stands out due to its enormous reserves in natural gas and shale formations, making it a 
pivotal feedstock for chemical production.3,4 However, efficient and selective conversion of 
methane into valueadded chemicals under mild conditions remains a challenge due to its 
exceptional stability, driven by its tetrahedral symmetry and strong CH bond strength ( 439 
kJmol), which demands high temperatures ( 700 C) andor highly reactive catalysts for 
activation.5,6 The relatively low volumetric energy density of methane requires costly 
infrastructure for liquefaction, transportation, and storage, thereby underscoring the need for 
efficient onsite and scalable conversion processes.2 Meanwhile, methane is the most potent 
greenhouse gas.7,8 Thus, developing efficient technologies to convert methane into valueadded 
chemicals under mild conditions is imperative for both economic and environmental sustainability.


---

Description:
Requires high temperatures (around 700Â°C) and/or highly reactive catalysts for activation due to its stability.

Text:
The transition from burning traditional fossil fuels to sustainable energy is proceeding slowly 
because of the lack of efficient catalysts and infrastructures, and thus carbonbased fuels are 
expected to remain a primary energy source in the near term.1,2 Among various hydrocarbons, 
methane stands out due to its enormous reserves in natural gas and shale formations, making it a 
pivotal feedstock for chemical production.3,4 However, efficient and selective conversion of 
methane into valueadded chemicals under mild conditions remains a challenge due to its 
exceptional stability, driven by its tetrahedral symmetry and strong CH bond strength ( 439 
kJmol), which demands high temperatures ( 700 C) andor highly reactive catalysts for 
activation.5,6 The relatively low volumetric energy density of methane requires costly 
infrastructure for liquefaction, transportation, and storage, thereby underscoring the need for 
efficient onsite and scalable conversion processes.2 Meanwhile, methane is the most potent 
greenhouse gas.7,8 Thus, developing efficient technologies to convert methane into valueadded 
chemicals under mild conditions is imperative for both economic and environmental sustainability.


---

Description:
The most potent greenhouse gas, highlighting the need for efficient conversion technologies for economic and environmental sustainability.

Text:
The transition from burning traditional fossil fuels to sustainable energy is proceeding slowly 
because of the lack of efficient catalysts and infrastructures, and thus carbonbased fuels are 
expected to remain a primary energy source in the near term.1,2 Among various hydrocarbons, 
methane stands out due to its enormous reserves in natural gas and shale formations, making it a 
pivotal feedstock for chemical production.3,4 However, efficient and selective conversion of 
methane into valueadded chemicals under mild conditions remains a challenge due to its 
exceptional stability, driven by its tetrahedral symmetry and strong CH bond strength ( 439 
kJmol), which demands high temperatures ( 700 C) andor highly reactive catalysts for 
activation.5,6 The relatively low volumetric energy density of methane requires costly 
infrastructure for liquefaction, transportation, and storage, thereby underscoring the need for 
efficient onsite and scalable conversion processes.2 Meanwhile, methane is the most potent 
greenhouse gas.7,8 Thus, developing efficient technologies to convert methane into valueadded 
chemicals under mild conditions is imperative for both economic and environmental sustainability.


---

Description:
Used in industrial scale valorization processes such as steam methane reforming.

Text:
Current industrial scale methane valorization predominantly relies on indirect, syngas
mediated routes, such as steam methane reforming followed by FischerTropsch synthesis.9 
Although these processes are wellestablished, this twostep route is energyintensive,10 
thermodynamically inefficient,11 and suffers from rapid catalyst deactivation due to coking,4,12 
which collectively drives up operational costs and carbon footprints.


---

Description:
A compound that can be directly converted to valuable multicarbon hydrocarbons.

Text:
Direct methane conversion, 
which bypasses the formation of syngas intermediates and directly produces desired products, 
offers a compelling alternative.13,14 Nevertheless, CH bond activation along with efficient CC 
bond coupling toward selective conversion of methane to valuable multicarbon hydrocarbons 
remains a challenge.1519 In addition, catalysts must avoid deactivation due to coke deposition.20,21 
Singleatom alloys (SAAs), atomically dispersing minimum amounts of an active metal 
into a less reactive host metal, are emergent catalysts.2235 Recently, several experimental studies 
have shown the enhanced reactivities of SAAs for alkane dehydrogenation, outperforming their 
corresponding monometallic catalysts with respect to CH activation barrier and avoidance of 
coking.30,31 Marcinkowski and Sykes synthesized PtCu SAA (i.e., single Pt atom dispersed on Cu 
host) for methane activation to form ethane, ethylene, and propene.30 Hannagan and Sykes 
synthesized RhCu SAA for lowtemperature dehydrogenation of propane to propene.31 Cubased 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20254t8fh ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000250039355 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv.
